---
layout: initial
title:  "News"
author: "Xiaoxu Chen"
permalink: /news/
---
- Nov 2025: Our paper "Statistical inference of boarding and alighting counts in transit systems with incomplete data" (authors: **Xiaoxu Chen**, Marc‑Olivier Thibault, Martin Trépanier, Lijun Sun) was accepted by Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies.
- Nov 2025: Our paper "A Bayesian Markov mesh regime-switching regression model for bus travel time forecasting" (authors: **Xiaoxu Chen**, Martin Trépanier, Lijun Sun) was accepted by ISTTT 2026.
- Oct 2025: I attended the 2025 INFORMS Annual Meeting in Atlanta, Georgia. It was a fantastic experience exploring how statistics, optimization, and AI are jointly reshaping the management and operations, and I look forward to contributing to these ongoing conversations.
- Jun 2025: Our paper "Bayesian inference of time-varying origin-destination matrices from boarding and alighting counts for transit services" (authors: **Xiaoxu Chen**, Zhanhong Cheng, Lijun Sun) was accepted by Transportation Research Part B: Methodological. [[Full-text](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04742)]
- May 2025: I attended Conference JOPT2025 (Optimization Days) and International Conference on Variable Neighborhood Search in Montreal, Canada. I presented our work on the Podium session.
- Feb 2025: Our paper "Conditional forecasting of bus travel time and passenger occupancy with Bayesian Markov regime-switching vector autoregression" (authors: **Xiaoxu Chen**, Zhanhong Cheng, Alexandra M. Schmidt, Lijun Sun) was accepted by Transportation Research Part B: Methodological. [[Full-text](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0191261524002716)]
- Feb 2025: Our paper "Understanding bus delay patterns under different temporal and weather conditions: A Bayesian Gaussian mixture model" (authors: **Xiaoxu Chen**, Saeid Saidi, Lijun Sun) was accepted by Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies. [[Full-text](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0968090X2500004X)]
- Jan 2025: I attended the 104th Transportation Research Board Annual Meeting (TRB2025) in Washington D.C., USA. Prof. Sun, thanks for your support! My collabrator Zhanhong Cheng and I presented our work in the poster session.
- Oct 2024: I am glad to give a talk on "Bayesian inference of time-varying origin-destination matrices from boarding and alighting counts for transit services" at [MIT Urban Mobility Lab](https://mobility.mit.edu/). [[Slides](assets\files\MIT_Xiaoxu_notes2.pdf)]
- Sep 2024: I am glad to give a talk on "Conditional forecasting of bus travel time and passenger occupancy with Bayesian Markov regime-switching vector autoregression" at HEC Montréal. [[Slides](assets\files\HEC_Xiaoxu_Bus_HMM_Slides.pdf)]
- Sep 2024: Our paper "Bayesian inference for link travel time correlation of a bus route" (authors: **Xiaoxu Chen**, Zhanhong Cheng, Lijun Sun) was accepted by Transportmetrica B: Transport Dynamics. [[Full-text](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/21680566.2024.2416181)]
- Sep 2024: I attended Conference in Emerging Technologies in Transportation Systems (TRC-30) in Crete, Greece. I presented our work on the Podium session. [[Slides](assets\files\MIT_Xiaoxu_notes2.pdf)]
- Sep 2024: I began my role as a Postdoctoral Scholar at McGill University, advised by Prof. Lijun Sun and Prof. Martin Trépanier.
- Jul 2024: I completed my Ph.D. jurney at McGill University! Thank you, Prof. Lijun Sun! And thank you eveyone!
- Jul 2024: Our paper "Long-term airport network performance forecasting with linear diffusion graph networks" (authors: Yuankai Wu, Jing Yang, **Xiaoxu Chen**, Yi Lin, Hongyu Yang) was published by IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems. [[Full-text](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10589713)]
- Apr 2024: I am glad to give a talk on "Bayesian inference of time-varying origin-destination matrices from boarding and alighting counts for transit services" at Department of Civil Engineering, University of Calgary.
- Jan 2024: I attended the 103rd Transportation Research Board Annual Meeting (TRB2024) in Washington D.C., USA. I presented our work in the lectern session. Our paper "Probabilistic forecasting of bus travel time and passenger occupancy with Bayesian time-dependent continuous density hidden Markov model" got [Best Paper Award from TRB Standing Committee on Statistical and Econometric Methods (AED60)](https://trbstats.weebly.com/). 
- Jan 2024: I am glad to give a talk on "Conditional forecasting of bus travel time and passenger occupancy with Bayesian Markov regime-switching vector autoregression" to the research group from Prof. Chao Yang at Tongji Univeristy, China.
- Dec 2023: Our paper "A Bayesian Gaussian mixture model for probabilistic modeling of car-following behaviors" (authors: **Xiaoxu Chen**, Chengyuan Zhang, Zhanhong Cheng, Lijun Sun) was published by IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems. [[Full-text](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10337758)]
- Sep 2023: I am glad to give a talk on "Probabilistic forecasting of bus travel time with a Bayesian Gaussian mixture model" at Department of Civil Engineering, University of Calgary.
- Apr 2023: I started my journey as a visting Ph.D. researcher at University of Calgary, advised by Prof. Saeid Saidi. Thanks for this great opportunity! 
- Sep 2023: Our paper "Probabilistic forecasting of bus travel time with a Bayesian Gaussian mixture model" (authors: **Xiaoxu Chen**, Zhanhong Cheng, Jian Gang Jin, Martin Trépanier, Lijun Sun) was accpted by Transportation Science. [[Full-text](https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/trsc.2022.0214)]
- Jul 2023: I attended the 16th World Conference on Transport Research (WCTR2023) in Montréal, Québec, Canada. I was invited to give a talk on the special session: Research and Applications on the Use of Passive Data from Public Transport (TransitData).
- Jul 2023: Our paper "Discovering dynamic patterns from spatiotemporal data with time-varying low-rank autoregression" (authors: Xinyu Chen, Chengyuan Zhang, **Xiaoxu Chen**, Nicolas Saunier, Lijun Sun) was published by IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering. [[Full-text](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10177995)]
- Oct 2022: I attended Conference on Advanced Systems in Public Transport and TransitData (CASPT2022) in Tel Aviv, Israel. I presented our work in the lectern session.
